---
layout: post
title:  "Desperation Breeds Boldness? Part I. Prolegomena. Firmly in the Grip of Magic"
date:   2014-06-23 03:03:35
categories: boldness, non-humans, austerity
---

Desperation breeds boldness... or does it? What if desperation just breeds more desperation? 

The homeless people on the streets of Toronto, the crazy mad people struggling to maintain a somewhat firm grip on reality, the poor people starving in the face of "abundance", people who need helping hand and there is none offered for years and years... I see souls suffering, so many of them, so much suffering, so much pain... Others see only garbage... A fractured society, purging itself of false demon projections onto real people. Oddly enough always in the name of future prosperity and abundance. How could it be otherwise?

Are the excluded stupid, uneducated, lazy, really not wanting to be able to afford to satisfy their needs (a la Maslow, or according to lesser known schemes), really not wanting to work, not wanting this, not wanting that? Feel free to add any number of negative "essential" qualities, please. Let your imagination run wild. Improvise. Uhm... Subhuman? Non-human? Garbage?

Yes, yes, garbage. 

Ahhhhh... garbage. Fond memories resurface, amusingly brutal... The cold reality is that I have been called "garbage" in interviews in recent years. Twice. There is no sane, no dignified, no reasonable way to respond to that, communicates only the existence of deficiencies on the part of the interviewer, as primitive as insults go... Enlightened? Intelligent? Hmmm, no... That insult came from people who really should know better, way better since they pretended to be lots of things they really weren't by any stretch of the imagination. It didn't help that both those people landed on their places in truly magical ways, it didn't help that both were funded largely by public money, it didn't help that one was supposed to be a doctor and a technocrat, and the other a person holding a position specifically created on paper to help vulnerable people, for which she had neither the required attitude, nor any even remotely relevant knowledge. Bafflingly ridiculous things do happen. Often.

Garbage. Yes, those self-mutilated, or as they think of themselves in their blind delusion, "vision-enhanced", see the excluded as garbage. So self-assuredly wrong, weaving their protective cuirass of exclusivity, their own fears and ignorance solidified as fibers. Magic thrives on fear, but magic easily goes out of control, turns you into a blind slave stiff inside.

It boggles the mind how primitive modes of thinking rule the so called "modern", "industrialized", "developed" societies. Not "primitive" as related to "closely-knit", not primitive as related to "sacred primordial", just "primitive" as related to "poor, eroded, deficient, malformed, diseased through and through". 

As if there exist some magic substance, popularly known as "money", which flows only in certain "essential" ways and the magical knowledge of this web of flows is "essential" sacred knowledge, singular in its arcane value, worth every last drop of blood and piece of bone of every vitally necessary human (oh, pardon me for the slippage, I mean non-human) sacrifice.

Hence the "essential" lack of "magical" value of those human beings excluded for one random reason or another from the magical flow. No essential "magical" value in you are not human. The key word here is "essential". "Essential" exclusion is a self-perpetuating construct, a predatory meme, a parasite that feeds on awareness at all levels biochemical and bio-electrical. "Essential" here is just a synonym for "empty" and "constructed out of thin air". 

And yet... The beast invoked by magic and sustained by this very magic requires sacrifices, human sacrifices. It craves souls. Sadly, never a shortage of those wanting, striving even, to be kindly accommodating to it. The magic beckons. The magic makes one feel good. Never mind the sacrificed. They are not human anyways.

Enormous amounts of physic energy get sucked into the "money" magic vortex, sustaining the beast, while as a result the fabric of society curves, bends, cracks, bleeds souls. The banality of wasting good souls, so easy to ignore.

The magical substance of "money" has power over the collective soul landscape only to the extent to which people dump their disowned and displaced fears, hatreds, angsts and the corresponding malformed thought constructs engendered as "self-evident" delusions and prejudices.

There is no free lunch in the world of "money" magic, or any magic, for that matter. Feed the best with your psychic refuse, and in exchange it grants you tunnel vision. Primitive magical thinking might appear to be able to explain everything and anything, but the moment one starts believing that, the number of thought constructs available to describe a reality diminishes greatly, and, ala Sapir-Whorf, the aperture of reality shrinks considerably.
 
There are no such things as "bad economy" ("the spheres of magical influence are so misaligned, incantations are in order") and "not enough money" ("the flasks are empty, say the incantations to liquefy these poor souls into some manna substance"), if one leaves aside the primitive magical thinking. 

There are only the human beings, intrinsically "essentially" worthy who find it all too easy to cooperate together and manipulate any given sphere in shared reality in order to exclude some other human beings from it, on the ground of the latter being  "essentially" not-worthy, either consciously or in a zombie-like state, self-inflicted or not. As simple as that. On multitude of different scales, every single moment, the never-ending battle of the "worthy" to dominate, subjugate, exclude and handle the the "not-worthy" they way they deserve rages. 

Does this battle of the "worthy" to eradicate the "not-worthy" define some kind of pinnacle, a major achievement in human evolution? I think not. Transcending the illusionary need for opposition goes a step further. And yet this very battle defines the current epoch, an epoch of baffling regress steeped in primitivism.

Think Mammon, if comparative religion is your thing; think Wetiko (Wendigo), if you are interested in contemporary spiritual thought, think of the work of the author of "Less Then Human: Why me Demean, Exterminate and Enslave Others" if you label yourself "social sciences" anything, etc, etc. 

Think anyway, escape the grip of ephemeral magical beasts. Think, you are human.

Postscriptum: While I was still mustering enough bravery to post these thought of mine that have been germinating for decades, came the shocking news from "great" Britain. I could have never dreamt of more poignant and stronger confirmation of my analysis above. Not many people chose to remember that, but the fact remains that 10s of thousands of people died in UK recently due to cuts, that is, just died, physically, irreversibly, painfully. Their lifeline was cut, they were labelled "nit-human". Very few paid attention. My favourite contemporary author did, he attended the events held to commemorate this small scale genocide and wrote about it, that's how I knew. That wasn't enough, this week the UK government announced new cuts, estimates says, 10s of thousands, even 100s of lives will be lost. The genocide continues. The comments in the british newspapers by those who applaud the practice are striking. You know why? Because they say those that are going to die are not human anyway, so they deserve it for not being human, that is, I repeat, note that well, "non-humans" deserve it for being "non-humans", so its their problem, their alone, should have become "humans" while they could... Incidentally one on those commenters employs slave labour of illegal immigrants and tells us how proud he is of his smart practices. Another enlightened citizen thinks that killing off the "non-human" is for the good of his family and will protect his children, he loves so much that he'll do anything to save them. All in all, if one translates those enlightened musings of favour of physically killing off the "not-worthy" in german, they would be virtually indistinguishable from anything written on the topic in the times of Nazis. Rule, Britannia!

While in other news, on other channels I follow (and have followed for decades), those that deal in transhumanism, people talk about physical life-extension, transcending the body and living virtually forever...

