---
layout: post
title:  "Desperation Breeds Boldness? Part II. Will the Good Doctor Be Willing to Help Me Escape from the Black Hole?"
date:   2014-06-23 05:05:35
categories: boldness, Dr. Kwame McKenzie
---

So far my experience in recent years is getting increasingly soul-crushing. Sometimes I feel as if the the air in Toronto has become so think with the hopelessness, the smog a material embodiment of the magical beast reigning supreme, it's illusions rendered so palpable, so physically suffocating.

The manufacturing, distribution and "management" of "essentially subhuman" labels sucks a human being in a self-sustaining atractor that permits no light to escape from the inside, a black hole. The most one can hope is to get a helping hand from the outside. Arduous and long process, takes years, oftentimes never succeeds, without a stroke of luck doom is certain. The glittering Schwarzschild condensation of the magical substance, popularly known as "money" around the event horizon is so strongly entrancing, that to have a clear unwarped vision is rare.

So tired of "I don't really know anything about that, but I still know better than you, because my initial presumption which cannot be wrong be definition was that you couldn't possibly know more that me on that topic" stance. Such attitude pervades through and through Canadian society, solidly embedded fundamental attitude, no matter how logic defying it is. How could one possibly stand against glaring flaws of logic, when so often, people faculty to understand logic is severely (self-)impaired? Who needs logic when one could deal in "money magic" instead in its own shiny ivory tower.

I couldn't possibly know, who, if anybody, with vision clear enough despite the warping effect of the black hole would see me as I am and offer a helping hand. Quite possibly nobody. Yet, hope, the quintessential human delusion has not lost its grip on me. Why should being slightly, or severely, for that matter, "neuro A-typical" be a (death) sentence?

And here comes the boldness from the title. Those sucked inside the black hole have nothing left but boldness. So I boldly contacted Dr. Kwame McKenzie asking for a job in his organization, I already applied for. There are no reasonable obstacles, unless one is manufactured just-in-time specifically for me, which is a standard practice as we all very well know. As I belong to a traditionally very vulnerable demographically strata of society, maligned and marginalized, with very high suicide rates across the globe, its "essential" place firmly entrenched in the "blind spot" outright rejection comes naturally... In a sense I challenge the good doctor. Will he respond to my challenge?

